all right so we're looking at a weekly
chart here and if you recall at the
beginning of the week on Monday's live
stream I walked you through the top down
analysis I told you how we Trad it up
into this premium side and balance by
side and efficiency and we started this
week here up around the high end of the
candles opening price and I
mentioned before we treated down here
that this is where we would likely draw
into this bu on balance efficiency this
candle here and we have seen that this
week on the daily chart again same
inbalance on the weekly you can see
we've worked that several times so far
this week and there's an inefficiency
down here
and I think that before we get there we
could potentially trade
below these lows now tomorrow's non far
payroll that is a highly
manipulated day so the data in my
opinion
is not as important because it's already
baked into
price but the sentiment aspects that
that
number c captures the minds of of
investors and causes them to feel either
bullish or bearish or unravels their
present bullish or bearishness if
they're holding positions so it's going
to be a carnival ride like it always is
and at 8:30 tomorrow uh everything's
going to be moving around a lot of
volatility but I think
that going into next
week we travel to here and most likely
try to work down inside this inefficient
right there if I'm
wrong then it's going to need to trade
Above This candlestick's open for me to
be
bullish so until that happens this
candlestick's opening price or lower I'm
[Music]
bearish all right my students know that
uh my
classic point of view for a new Trader
new student is trade on Monday of the
week of non-front payroll trade on
Tuesday
don't trade on Wednesday don't trade on
Thursday don't trade on Friday all right
so here's Thursday's trading here on a
15-minute time frame here's Wednesday's
trading and here's Tuesday's
trading so you can see Tuesday much
better in terms of price delivery
Wednesday consolidation Thursday
consolidation this is graphically
depicting exactly why I tell brand new
students don't trade this week now
doesn't mean that you if you have more
experience more understanding and you
have a model and you're not going to go
in there and try to trade aggressively
with huge overleveraged positions it
doesn't mean that you can't take trades
it just means that as a mentor I'm
trying to be responsible to remind those
individuals that they'll have a lot of
experience that might get wrapped up on
something that they see in price action
and then completely lose their their
bearings and and potentially hurt
themselves
financially but with that said we have
sell side resting below here I think
that's going to be a factor for nonr
peral tomorrow uh we've already upset
the buy side here relative equal highs
you can see that we did in fact run up
there worked that level and then stayed
in a nasty little consolidation and then
dug down in took the cell side here and
then Consolidated into the close of the
day here's a five minute chart of the
price action for today as you can see
it's kind of it's gnarly basically comes
up hits the body I mentioned on the
15-minute time frame and then spends a
long time just banging around and this
is exactly what I tell students to avoid
it's actually very easy to Simply avoid
this no one told you that you had to
trade today but someone did tell you
that you should avoid trading and that's
me but I know you don't like to listen
to your daddy so we're going to take a
look at what this price has done here on
a one minute
chart first we're going to look at
through the lens of regular trading
hours in the lower right hand corner
you'll see that rth that means we're
going to see the price delivery between
9:30 a.m. eastern time until 4:14 p.m.
eastern time so the previous day here on
Wednesday that's the settlement at
4:14 eastern
time and then we we opened up at 9:30
today so that's your opening range Gap
defined by that separation between the
two price points in this rectangle here
is essentially the opening range Gap
and the opening range so the time and
the Gap so the market has a midgap level
here so we opened traded right back up
to it so 70% of the time the Gap will
get filled to halfway again you're still
seeing that number going I saw a guy
posting on Twitter that uh someone did a
a study on it and it doesn't live up to
70% you check your math because I I went
back 40 years okay and I got data going
back for decades and also I've been
living it so your data is off the idea
of it reaching back to 70 uh 70% time
going to halfway of the Gap it's a nice
little scalping opportunity but if we
open up down here it just means for the
opening range that means the first 30
minutes bias is bullish so it goes up to
it here pulls back down in Fair Value
Gap here rallies back higher find some
support at midgap rallies up to previous
day settlement
another fair value Gap rallies up and
clears the buy side spends a little bit
of time in here it's exactly what you
want to see because this is accumulation
of buy stops smart money is accumulating
those for the express purposes to trade
it short the market breaks lower comes
back into this sell side and balance buy
side and efficiency so this
candlestick's low that's what you see
this dash line with and this
candlestick's High that's this dash line
and then the midpoint of that is
consequent encroachment that's this line
here so we had a really nasty back and
forth uh price consolidation in here and
then rallies back above and trades into
consequent encouragment of that sell
sign balance byid efficiency on the one
minute chart now let's take a look at it
through the lens of a electronic trading
hours chart on one minute time frame you
can see that sell sign and balance buy
side of efficiency after the market has
traded up to the buy side breaks lower
comes right back in and then later in
the day after all this chopping around
here it could goes back into the lower
half of this Cy it does not get in the
upper half so that tells you that this
is most likely going to be wanting to go
lower we have a nice pull of liquidity
down here and we have the middle of that
Weekly B balance cell efficiency that's
what this line is here so since we were
unable to trade in the upper half of
that sell side balance bid efficiency
it's more likely it's going to break
lower so after displacement lower we
have a gap in here that initially I
thought was going to be traded back back
up into but uh I later corrected myself
and saw that this was essentially a
breakaway Gap and in this little
consolidation trading back up into all
the Wicks if you do all the 50%
measurements of that for consequent
encroachment it's reaching up into those
and then we break
lower attacking the cell side here here
and ultimately down here and then
delivering to the consequent
encouragement of the weekly buyid
balance sell efficiency which is this
blue rectangle area which has what I
taught you on Monday's live streamed top
down analysis on the weekly chart after
hitting that it makes the low of the day
and the market goes off that and then
consolidates into the afternoon I want
to take a closer look in here because I
want to show you that I did in fact
execute in
that here is this consolidation trading
up into all the candlesticks wicks in
here but in here on the one minute chart
you can't see what I'm about to show you
but there's a inversion fair value guy
over here on the 15sec chart you can see
this Candlestick right there that buy
side B sell side efficiency once we
traded outside of it it came back up
into it and I went short six contracts
there at
20,10 and 3/4 traded lower one more
Spike up in here before taking out this
candlesticks low and I'll add four more
there and we broke lower I took partials
at uh 19964 a. half traded into
institutional orow entry drill there
broke lower dug down into another
partial at 19925 even came back up into
a fair value Gap here sold off down and
I took one contract off at 19882 and a
quarter about three handlers or so away
from the low of the day and it's below
the weekly B cell efficiency consequent
encouragement the mid gaps in efficiency
that blue shaded area and then I had two
contracts running as a as a potential if
in case it want to break down further
but ultimately came back and hit the
stop loss on the balance of the two
contracts at 19941 and a half
so the difference is experience the
difference is is understanding it's not
likely that you're going to have the
experience to trade this and expect
these types of price runs during the
week of nonform payroll but over time
you will but it's not it's not
responsible for me as a a mentor to try
to teach you to Chase these types of
moves when it's a lot more difficult to
trade in these environments now can I do
it yes but it doesn't mean that you
should try to pretend to be the
equivalent of what 30 years of
experience yields to me your best
interest is to sit still and study these
days and appreciate the level of
difficulty it brings with it because if
you can't recognize that early on you're
going to have these high expectations
unrealistic expectations that you're
going to be able to navigate well in
these environments without someone
guiding you it's ill advised